Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.

Language to write software


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
1. Java runtime environment, which is tha java virtual machine and libraries
2. Interpreter which turns source code to machine language



What is IDE?
A. software that lets you write and debug programming language;



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Intelli j , eclipse



Explain the entire java life cycle.
writing source code, compiling source code, turn to byte code, execute byte code with jvm

what is class?
the blue print of an object

What is object?
instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
Main method

Why main is static?
JVM looks for it before making objects

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
java.lang.Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
path is the computer system and class path is the development environment

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
interface can only declare methods but Abstract can have abstract methods and initialized methods

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
no, you can only use them to declare methods and define methods

what is Access Specifier?
it denotes the accessibility of classes, methods and data types for object oriented languages

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object oriented program, key concepts of oop are encapsulation, inheritance, abstraction, polymorphism

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
a java package organizes related classes and interface java.lang is imported by default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
application programming interface. I've used java api

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
no only multiple interface implementation

What is method overloading and when it happens?
having a method with the same name but different signature this is polymorphism implementation

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
errors that can happen in a program we use try catch method to handle them

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
makes variables and methods available without creating object

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
makes variable and methods not changeable

What is final, finally and finalize?
final is used to place restriction on classes methods and variables,
finally is use to execute certain code no matter what, and finalize is
used to clean up processes before garbage collection

What is a constructor ?
a method that is called during the creation of a object

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes as long as they have different parameters

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
a default constructor is called

What is "this" keyword in java ?
it refers to a reference variable within the class

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
calls variables and methods from child class to parent class

What is JVM stand for ?
java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
yes

What version of java are you using?
java 11.0.8

What is JAR stand for ?
java archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
jvm is the machine that executes the program and jdk is the whole java program

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
jre is the container and jvm is the content

What is compile time and run time?
compile time is source code converted to byte code and runtime is when byte code is executed

What is heap?
area on the memory where all class instance and arrays are allocated

How java manage it's memory?
by automatically collecting garbage once object aren't in use

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

What is Singleton class?
a class that limits the creation of objects to one

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
serialization is the conversion of an object into bytes to save in storage whiel deserialization is converting byte into object

when to use transient variable in java?
when object can't be serialized

Difference between while and do..while loop?
while loops checks arguments first before executing block of code do while executes block of code then checks arguments

What is Enum?
set type of data that do not change

What is Iterator?
something that allows to travers a container such as an array

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
String objects are caches in String pool

What is constructor chaining in Java?
calling a constructor from another constructor

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
serial garbage collector uses one thread to collect while parallel uses multiple threads

What is JIT stands for?
just in time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
the process of freeing up space in heap for new allocation of objects

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
no

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
object is located in the heap while reference variable and primitive variables are in the stack

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
ava Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
without knowing the names of the classes, methods and it is useful because it supports dynamic
retrieval of information about classes and data structures by name, and allows for their manipulation within an executing Java program

what is multithreading in java?
executing multiple threads at the same time

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java

What is Framework?
software development platform

What are the testing Framework available in java?
unit, jWalk, Mockito

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
testNG is for advanced parameterized testing

What are the dependencies for this project?
gson-2.6.2.jar
        java-jason.jar
        javax.jason.jar
        mongo-java-driver-3.4.0.jar
        mysql-connector-java-8.0.13.jar
        testng-6.8.7.jar

what is dependency injection in java?
a java class can be tested in isolation

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
static binding is during compile and dynamic binding is during runtime








