Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. to organize our code

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
traverse search merge insert sort delete

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
database managements, ai, simulations

what is an Array?
fixed size container for object of the same data type

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
array list size is dynamic

what is LinkedList?
each element is a separate object

How is an Array different from Linked List?
each element is independent in a linked list each element is connected to the next one

what is queue?
elements are inserted at the end and removed form the beginning

what is stack?
collection that follows last in first out

what is FIFO and LIFO?
first in first out, last in first out

what is the order of complexity?
linear, iterative, factorial

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
first element

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
comparison

what is tree in data structure?
non-linear structure thats organized in a hierarchical way

what is graph in data structure?
an object consisting of a vertex set and an edge set

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
hashtable is synchronized hashmap is not

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

How HashMap works in java
HashMap implementation calls hashCode method on Key object and applies returned
hashcode into its own hashing function to find a bucket location for storing Entry object, important point to mention is that HashMap in Java stores both key and value.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
when there is an element that is being added to array outside its legnth

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
System.arraycopy()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
array elements are independent linked list elements are not

What is DFS and BFS?
he breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used
for traversing and searching a node in a graph. They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.

What is Recursion?
method calling on itself

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
data oranized sequentualy is linear

What is Big-(O)-notation?
the complexity and compile time for a program to execute

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


